#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with python 3.10
# To update, run:
#
#    pip-compile
#
anyio==3.6.2
    # via jupyter-server
anytree==2.8.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   oasislmf
argon2-cffi==21.3.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclassic
    #   notebook
argon2-cffi-bindings==21.2.0
    # via argon2-cffi
argparsetree==0.0.6
    # via oasislmf
asttokens==2.1.0
    # via stack-data
attrs==22.1.0
    # via
    #   hypothesis
    #   jsonschema
    #   pytest
backcall==0.2.0
    # via ipython
beautifulsoup4==4.11.1
    # via nbconvert
bleach==5.0.1
    # via nbconvert
certifi==2022.9.24
    # via requests
cffi==1.15.1
    # via argon2-cffi-bindings
chainmap==1.0.3
    # via oasislmf
chardet==5.0.0
    # via oasislmf
charset-normalizer==2.1.1
    # via requests
contourpy==1.0.6
    # via matplotlib
cramjam==2.6.2
    # via fastparquet
cycler==0.11.0
    # via matplotlib
debugpy==1.6.3
    # via ipykernel
decorator==5.1.1
    # via ipython
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via nbconvert
entrypoints==0.4
    # via jupyter-client
exceptiongroup==1.0.4
    # via
    #   hypothesis
    #   pytest
executing==1.2.0
    # via stack-data
fastjsonschema==2.16.2
    # via nbformat
fastparquet==2022.11.0
    # via oasislmf
fileupload==0.1.5
    # via -r requirements.in
fonttools==4.38.0
    # via matplotlib
fsspec==2022.11.0
    # via fastparquet
graphviz==0.20.1
    # via -r requirements.in
hypothesis==6.58.0
    # via -r requirements.in
idna==3.4
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   requests
iniconfig==1.1.1
    # via pytest
ipykernel==6.17.1
    # via
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter
    #   jupyter-console
    #   nbclassic
    #   notebook
    #   qtconsole
ipython==8.6.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter-console
ipython-genutils==0.2.0
    # via
    #   ipywidgets
    #   nbclassic
    #   notebook
    #   qtconsole
ipywidgets==7.6.5
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   fileupload
    #   jupyter
    #   qgrid
jedi==0.18.2
    # via ipython
jinja2==3.1.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclassic
    #   nbconvert
    #   notebook
jsonschema==4.17.0
    # via
    #   nbformat
    #   oasislmf
jupyter==1.0.0
    # via -r requirements.in
jupyter-client==7.4.7
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclassic
    #   nbclient
    #   notebook
    #   qtconsole
jupyter-console==6.4.4
    # via jupyter
jupyter-core==5.0.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclassic
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
    #   notebook
    #   qtconsole
jupyter-server==1.23.3
    # via
    #   nbclassic
    #   notebook-shim
jupyterlab-pygments==0.2.2
    # via nbconvert
jupyterlab-widgets==3.0.3
    # via ipywidgets
kiwisolver==1.4.4
    # via matplotlib
llvmlite==0.39.1
    # via numba
lxml==4.9.1
    # via pandas-datareader
markupsafe==2.1.1
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   nbconvert
matplotlib==3.6.2
    # via -r requirements.in
matplotlib-inline==0.1.6
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
mistune==2.0.4
    # via nbconvert
msgpack==1.0.4
    # via oasislmf
nbclassic==0.4.8
    # via notebook
nbclient==0.7.0
    # via nbconvert
nbconvert==7.2.5
    # via
    #   jupyter
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclassic
    #   notebook
nbformat==5.7.0
    # via
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclassic
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   notebook
nest-asyncio==1.5.6
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   nbclassic
    #   nbclient
    #   notebook
notebook==6.5.2
    # via
    #   fileupload
    #   jupyter
    #   qgrid
    #   widgetsnbextension
notebook-shim==0.2.2
    # via nbclassic
numba==0.56.4
    # via oasislmf
numexpr==2.8.4
    # via oasislmf
numpy==1.22.4
    # via
    #   contourpy
    #   fastparquet
    #   matplotlib
    #   numba
    #   numexpr
    #   oasislmf
    #   pandas
oasislmf==1.26.4
    # via -r requirements.in
ods-tools==2.3.2
    # via oasislmf
packaging==21.3
    # via
    #   fastparquet
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-server
    #   matplotlib
    #   nbconvert
    #   pytest
    #   qtpy
pandas==1.5.1
    # via
    #   fastparquet
    #   oasislmf
    #   pandas-datareader
    #   qgrid
pandas-datareader==0.10.0
    # via -r requirements.in
pandocfilters==1.5.0
    # via nbconvert
parameterized==0.8.1
    # via -r requirements.in
parso==0.8.3
    # via jedi
pathlib==1.0.1
    # via -r requirements.in
pexpect==4.8.0
    # via ipython
pickleshare==0.7.5
    # via ipython
pillow==9.3.0
    # via matplotlib
platformdirs==2.5.4
    # via jupyter-core
pluggy==1.0.0
    # via pytest
prometheus-client==0.15.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclassic
    #   notebook
prompt-toolkit==3.0.33
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   jupyter-console
psutil==5.9.4
    # via ipykernel
ptyprocess==0.7.0
    # via
    #   pexpect
    #   terminado
pure-eval==0.2.2
    # via stack-data
pycparser==2.21
    # via cffi
pygments==2.13.0
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   jupyter-console
    #   nbconvert
    #   qtconsole
pyparsing==3.0.9
    # via
    #   matplotlib
    #   packaging
pyrsistent==0.19.2
    # via jsonschema
pytest==7.2.0
    # via -r requirements.in
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-client
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
pytz==2022.6
    # via
    #   oasislmf
    #   pandas
pyzmq==24.0.1
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclassic
    #   notebook
    #   qtconsole
qgrid==1.3.1
    # via -r requirements.in
qtconsole==5.4.0
    # via jupyter
qtpy==2.3.0
    # via qtconsole
requests==2.28.1
    # via
    #   oasislmf
    #   pandas-datareader
    #   requests-toolbelt
requests-toolbelt==0.10.1
    # via oasislmf
send2trash==1.8.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclassic
    #   notebook
shutilwhich==1.1.0
    # via oasislmf
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   anytree
    #   asttokens
    #   bleach
    #   python-dateutil
sniffio==1.3.0
    # via anyio
sortedcontainers==2.4.0
    # via hypothesis
soupsieve==2.3.2.post1
    # via beautifulsoup4
stack-data==0.6.1
    # via ipython
tabulate==0.9.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   oasislmf
tblib==1.7.0
    # via oasislmf
terminado==0.17.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclassic
    #   notebook
tinycss2==1.2.1
    # via nbconvert
tomli==2.0.1
    # via pytest
tornado==6.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclassic
    #   notebook
    #   terminado
tqdm==4.64.1
    # via oasislmf
traitlets==5.5.0
    # via
    #   fileupload
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-core
    #   jupyter-server
    #   matplotlib-inline
    #   nbclassic
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
    #   notebook
    #   qtconsole
urllib3==1.26.12
    # via requests
wcwidth==0.2.5
    # via prompt-toolkit
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   tinycss2
websocket-client==1.4.2
    # via jupyter-server
widgetsnbextension==3.5.2
    # via ipywidgets

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
